Add Monitoring to doc website repo (#2018)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/monitoring.md

---
layout: default
title: Monitoring
nav_order: 12
---

# Monitoring Data Prepper with Metrics

Monitoring metrics in Data Prepper is instrumented using [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/). There are two types of metrics: JVM and system metrics, and plugin metrics. [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is used as the default metrics backend.

## JVM and system metrics

JVM and system metrics are runtime metrics used to monitor Data Prepper instances. They include metrics for classloaders, memory, garbage collection, threads, and others. For details, [JVM and system metrics](https://micrometer.io/docs/ref/jvm) for details. 

### Naming

> JVM and system metrics in Data Prepper follow pre-defined names in Micrometer, such as `jvm_classes_loaded`, and `jvm_memory_used`. 

Author: Does this naming convention relate to the "Naming Meters" guidance in Micrometer documentation?
https://micrometer.io/docs/concepts#_naming_meters
Or is this a different convention?

### Serving

> By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server. The format is a text Prometheus scrape. This port can be used for any frontend which accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like CloudWatch which does not require or host the endpoint, but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

Author: Are the metrics always, without exception, published to CloudWatch? Or is CloudWatch the example throughout this statement? Some other registry does not require or host the endpoint but publishes the metrics directly?

Reviewer: My understanding is that CloudWatch registry is one example but not the only one, and there're other registries available as well. 

> ...which does not require or host the endpoint, but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

This refers to CloudWatch registry only. If user configures Data Prepper to serve metrics to CloudWatch registry, it  publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

Author: @oeyh Would it work if we rephrased to "This port can be used to serve metrics to other registries, like Amazon CloudWatch, which does not require or host the endpoint, and publishes the metrics directly to a CloudWatch frontend, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/)."?

Right now, it reads: "...and publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch, such as Grafana" which sounds very ambiguous.

Author: @chenqi0805 Would it work if we rephrased to "This port can be used to serve metrics to other registries, like Amazon CloudWatch, which does not require or host the endpoint, and publishes the metrics directly to a CloudWatch frontend, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/)."?

Right now, it reads: "...and publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch, such as Grafana" which sounds very ambiguous.

Author: @dlvenable Would welcome your feedback on this as well.

Reviewer 2: I think the modified description is a bit misleading. Cloudwatch does not rely on any port or prometheus endpoint described here. Only Grafana frontend does. So the original description seems fine to me:

This port can be used for any frontend which accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like CloudWatch which does not require or host the endpoint, but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

## Plugin metrics

> Each plugin (if necessary, each class within a plugin) is responsible for posting relevant metrics. Besides custom metrics introduced by specific plugins, `data-prepper-api` already introduced the following common metrics for plugin types:

Author: @oeyh Is there a reference to the Data Prepper API?

Author: @chenqi0805 Is there a reference to the Data Prepper API?

Author: @natebower What is the correct way to include this link as we have the code block tick marks around `data-prepper-api` ?

Reviewer 3: @carolxob If I understand your question correctly, I would link the text instead of using tick marks (the [Data Prepper API](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/data-prepper-api)).

---
layout: default
title: Monitoring

> nav_order: 12

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
nav_order: 33
```

---

# Monitoring Data Prepper with metrics

> Data Prepper can be monitored with metrics using [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/). There are two types of metrics: JVM and system metrics and plugin metrics. [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is used as the default metrics backend.

Reviewer 5: Can we turn this around to be active voice? For example, "You can monitor your Data Prepper metrics using Micrometer. The two types of metrics that you can monitor are _JVM and system metrics_ and _plugin metrics_" (I don't know about the italics, but otherwise it's hard to understand that JVM and system go together. May be my inexperience with the technology, though.)

Reviewer 6: How about:
```suggestion
To see how Data Prepper is performing, you can monitor it with the following metrics:
- JVM and system metrics
- Plugin metrics
[Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/) captures metrics from Data Prepper and publishes them to the [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) backend.
```

## JVM and system metrics

> JVM and system metrics are runtime metrics used to monitor Data Prepper instances. They include metrics for classloaders, memory, garbage collection, threads, and others. For more information, see [JVM and system metrics](https://micrometer.io/docs/ref/jvm). 

Reviewer 5: ...runtime metrics that are used...

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
JVM and system metrics are runtime metrics, which include information about class loaders, memory, garbage collection, and threads. For more information, see [JVM and system metrics](https://micrometer.io/docs/ref/jvm). 
```

### Naming

> JVM and system metrics follow predefined names in [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/docs/concepts#_naming_meters), such as `jvm_classes_loaded` and `jvm_memory_used`. 

Reviewer 6: I didn't find `jvm_classes_loaded` or `jvm_memory_used` on that page. Maybe it's just that they follow naming conventions?
```suggestion
JVM and system metrics follow [Micrometer naming conventions](https://micrometer.io/docs/concepts#_naming_meters). Example names are `jvm_classes_loaded` and `jvm_memory_used`. 
```

Author: @dlvenable Please clarify.

Reviewer 7: That page gives an example of `http.server.requests`. But, we don't report that for system metrics. So we use `jvm.memory.used` as an example.

Here is my attempt to clarify:

> VM and system metrics follow predefined names in [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/docs/concepts#_naming_meters). For example, the Micrometer metrics names for memory usage is `jvm.memory.used`. Micrometer will change the name to match the metric system. Following the same example, `jvm.memory.used` is reported to Prometheus as `jvm_memory_used` and reported to CloudWatch as `jvm.memory.used.value`.

### Serving

> By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server. The format is a text Prometheus scrape. This port can be used for any frontend that accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like Amazon CloudWatch, which does not require or host the endpoint but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

Reviewer 5: this port --> which port??

Also, active voice: The configuration can be updated --> You can configure Prometheus (?) to serve metrics to other registries...

Reviewer 7: This is the Data Prepper server port.

It is configurable and you have the configuration reference here:

https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/22bac5fd45427db5d09801c221cfa37d3cf6d92f/_data-prepper/configuration/data-prepper-configuration.md?plain=1#L20

The default value is 4900. But again, users can change this.

> By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server. The format is a text Prometheus scrape. This port can be used for any frontend that accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like Amazon CloudWatch, which does not require or host the endpoint but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

Reviewer 6: From what I understand... but needs to be checked for technical accuracy:
```suggestion
By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server in Prometheus scrape format. Prometheus polls DataPrepper for metrics and stores them in its database. To visualize the data, you can set up any frontend that accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like Amazon CloudWatch, which does not require or host the endpoint but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.
```

Author: @dlvenable Please confirm for technical accuracy.

Reviewer 7: > Prometheus polls DataPrepper

This might be misleading. Prometheus _can_ be configured to poll Data Prepper. Then this is all true. 

Perhaps:

> Configure Prometheus to scrape from the Data Prepper URL. Prometheus will then poll Data Prepper for metrics ...

## Plugin metrics

> Each plugin (and, if necessary, each class within a plugin) is responsible for posting relevant metrics. Besides custom metrics introduced by specific plugins, the [Data Prepper API](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/data-prepper-api) introduces the following common metrics for plugin types: 

Reviewer 7: I think the section is probably only developer oriented and should probably be removed. Or replace this with a small introduction.

Perhaps:

> Plugins report their own metrics. Data Prepper uses a naming convention to help with consistency in the metrics. Please note that plugin metrics do not use dimensions.

Please do keep the "Naming" and "Service" sub-sections.

        - `writeTimeouts`: The count of write timeouts in a buffer
    - Gaugefir 
        - `recordsInBuffer`: The number of records in a buffer
        - `recordsInFlight`: The number of records read from a buffer and being processed by data-prepper downstreams (for example, processor, sink)
    - Timer
        - `readTimeElapsed`: The time elapsed while reading from a buffer
        - `checkpointTimeElapsed`: The time elapsed while checkpointing
2. AbstractProcessor
    - Counter
        - `recordsIn`: The number of records ingressed into a processor
        - `recordsOut`: The number of records egressed from a processor
    - Timer
        - `timeElapsed`: The time elapsed during initiation of a processor
3. AbstractSink
    - Counter
        - `recordsIn`: The number of records ingressed into a sink
    - Timer
        - `timeElapsed`: The time elapsed during execution of a sink 

### Naming

Metrics follow a naming convention of **PIPELINE_NAME_PLUGIN_NAME_METRIC_NAME**. For example, a **recordsIn** metric for the **opensearch-sink** plugin in a pipeline named **output-pipeline** has a qualified name of **output-pipeline_opensearch_sink_recordsIn**.

### Serving

> By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server. The format is a text Prometheus scrape. This port can be used for any frontend that accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like CloudWatch, which does not require or host the endpoint but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

Reviewer 5: Same comments as above about introducing 'port' and active voice.

Reviewer 6: We only need one Serving section since it's exactly the same. I suggest putting it at the end and specifying it applies to both kinds of metrics

> By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server in a Prometheus scrape format. You can configure Prometheus to scrape from the Data Prepper URL. The Data Prepper server port has a default value of `4900` that you can can modify, and this port can be used for any frontend that accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). You can update the configuration to serve metrics to other registries like CloudWatch, that does not require or host the endpoint, but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

Author: @dlvenable Can you take a look at this section and confirm that it aligns correctly with the previous Serving section?

---
layout: default
title: Monitoring
nav_order: 12
---

# Monitoring Data Prepper with metrics

> Monitoring metrics in Data Prepper is instrumented using [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/). There are two types of metrics: JVM and system metrics, and plugin metrics. [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is used as the default metrics backend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Data Prepper can be monitored with metrics using [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/). There are two types of metrics: JVM and system metrics and plugin metrics. [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is used as the default metrics backend.
```

## JVM and system metrics

> JVM and system metrics are runtime metrics used to monitor Data Prepper instances. They include metrics for classloaders, memory, garbage collection, threads, and others. For details, [JVM and system metrics](https://micrometer.io/docs/ref/jvm) for details. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
JVM and system metrics are runtime metrics used to monitor Data Prepper instances. They include metrics for classloaders, memory, garbage collection, threads, and others. For more information, see [JVM and system metrics](https://micrometer.io/docs/ref/jvm). 
```

### Naming

> JVM and system metrics in Data Prepper follow pre-defined names in [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/docs/concepts#_naming_meters), such as `jvm_classes_loaded`, and `jvm_memory_used`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
JVM and system metrics follow predefined names in [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/docs/concepts#_naming_meters), such as `jvm_classes_loaded` and `jvm_memory_used`. 
```

### Serving

> By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server. The format is a text Prometheus scrape. This port can be used for any frontend which accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like Amazon CloudWatch, which does not require or host the endpoint, but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server. The format is a text Prometheus scrape. This port can be used for any frontend that accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like Amazon CloudWatch, which does not require or host the endpoint but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.
```

## Plugin metrics

> Each plugin (and, if necessary, each class within a plugin) is responsible for posting relevant metrics. Besides custom metrics introduced by specific plugins, the (Data Prepper API)[https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/data-prepper-api] introduces the following common metrics for plugin types. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each plugin (and, if necessary, each class within a plugin) is responsible for posting relevant metrics. Besides custom metrics introduced by specific plugins, the [Data Prepper API](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/data-prepper-api) introduces the following common metrics for plugin types: 
```

> <!--- For editorial review: Need help on how to adjust first sentence to avoid the use of parentheses. It doesn't seem to flow well.--->

Reviewer 3: It actually reads fine to me as is. You don't necessarily need to avoid parentheses. In this case, the information is complementary but not essential, so the parentheses are appropriate.

1. AbstractBuffer
    - Counter

>         - `recordsWritten`: number of records written into a buffer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `recordsWritten`: The number of records written into a buffer
```

>         - `recordsRead`: number of records read from a buffer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `recordsRead`: The number of records read from a buffer
```

>         - `recordsProcessed`: number of records read from a buffer and marked as processed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `recordsProcessed`: The number of records read from a buffer and marked as processed
```

>         - `writeTimeouts`: count of write timeouts in a buffer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `writeTimeouts`: The count of write timeouts in a buffer
```

    - Gaugefir 

>         - `recordsInBuffer`: number of records in the buffer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `recordsInBuffer`: The number of records in a buffer
```

>         - `recordsInFlight`: number of records read from a buffer and being processed by data-prepper downstreams (e.g. processor, sink).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `recordsInFlight`: The number of records read from a buffer and being processed by data-prepper downstreams (for example, processor, sink)
```

Reviewer 3: Is "data-prepper" intentionally lowercase and hyphenated in this instance?

Author: @dlvenable Should this be "data-prepper"? Right now, it looks like it should instead be Data Prepper.

    - Timer

>         - `readTimeElapsed`: time elapsed while reading from a buffer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `readTimeElapsed`: The time elapsed while reading from a buffer
```

>         - `checkpointTimeElapsed`: time elapsed while checkpointing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `checkpointTimeElapsed`: The time elapsed while checkpointing
```

2. AbstractProcessor
    - Counter

>         - `recordsIn`: number of ingress records into a processor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `recordsIn`: The number of records ingressed into a processor
```

>         - `recordsOut`: number of egress records from a processor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `recordsOut`: The number of records egressed from a processor
```

    - Timer

>         - `timeElapsed`: time elapsed during execution of a processor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `timeElapsed`: The time elapsed during execution of a processor
```

Reviewer 3: Is there a word we can use other than "execution"?

Author: @dlvenable Will it work if we replace "execution" with "initiation"? In general, this is a term we try to avoid using.

3. AbstractSink
    - Counter

>         - `recordsIn`: number of ingress records into a sink.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `recordsIn`: The number of records ingressed into a sink
```

    - Timer

>         - `timeElapsed`: time elapsed during execution of a sink. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - `timeElapsed`: The time elapsed during execution of a sink 
```

Reviewer 3: Is there a word we can use other than "execution"?

### Naming

> Metrics follow a naming convention of **PIPELINE_NAME_PLUGIN_NAME_METRIC_NAME** . For example, a **recordsIn** metric for the **opensearch-sink** plugin in a pipeline named **output-pipeline** has a qualified name of **output-pipeline_opensearch_sink_recordsIn**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Metrics follow a naming convention of **PIPELINE_NAME_PLUGIN_NAME_METRIC_NAME**. For example, a **recordsIn** metric for the **opensearch-sink** plugin in a pipeline named **output-pipeline** has a qualified name of **output-pipeline_opensearch_sink_recordsIn**.
```

### Serving

> By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server. The format is a text Prometheus scrape. The format is a text Prometheus scrape. This port can be used for any frontend which accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like CloudWatch which does not require or host the endpoint, but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, metrics are served from the **/metrics/sys** endpoint on the Data Prepper server. The format is a text Prometheus scrape. This port can be used for any frontend that accepts Prometheus metrics, such as [Grafana](https://prometheus.io/docs/visualization/grafana/). The configuration can be updated to serve metrics to other registries like CloudWatch, which does not require or host the endpoint but publishes the metrics directly to CloudWatch.
```

Reviewer 3: Confirm that this content is intended to appear twice.

Author: @dlvenable Can you confirm that this is supposed to appear twice?

Author: Confirmed that this does not need to appear twice.
